Preface: Finally got a chance to get to the internet, we are now in the Panama Canal and there is wifi. I have been on the ship for over a month now and while I was here I wrote about all the interesting things that were happening here and now I finally have a chance to share them. There will be no photos yet, I will post them either later or when I get home. So, here we go:

First impressions

After spending the night at a hotel in Guayaquil, we got into the agent's car and went to the ship in Puerto Bolivar. Contrary to expectations, we got there quickly, in about 3-4 hours. The weather was cloudy and even though we are not far from the equator, it was cool. Almost the entire time we were driving, there were banana plantations on both sides of the road, but it still boggles the mind: these bananas are loaded onto ships in several ports of Ecuador in tens of thousands of tons every day, all year round. These poor bananas should grow faster than mushrooms.

Roads.
The roads in Ecuador are almost perfect, although the settlements look very poor. There are many interesting cars on the roads, for example, a lot of trucks - ancient Fords, which I have never seen before. And several times I came across old Zhiguli :) And if you overtake someone and there is an oncoming car, it always turns on the headlights. On large cars - trucks and buses, local tuning is always flaunted: cars are painted, or in stickers, and there is always a huge number of LEDs everywhere, as if New Year's trees are driving and shimmering with all the colors.

The ship.
At first glance, the ship is not bad, in relatively good condition, although it was built 92 years ago. The crew is 19 people - 11 Russians and 8 Filipinos, including the cook. They say that from time to time you get bored from their culinary delights. The Filipinos are the rank and file here, you have to constantly watch them so they don't do anything wrong, among them there is only one sailor who is truly responsible and has the right hands, he understands everything at a glance. The rest are typical Ravshans and Dzhamshuts. And one of them is a homosexual O___o, in addition to this he is a dangerous person, in the sense that he easily falls into a state of stupor and switches off his brain: there was a case when he locked one sailor in the hold, he was yelling and drumming inside, the boatswain noticed this, started yelling at this character, who, in turn, with frightened eyes bulging, with shaking hands continued to tighten the lambs. In the end, the boatswain moved him away and released the sailor from the hold. Communication is in English, but because of the accent it is not always clear at first what the Filipinos are saying, especially on the radio. For example, he tells you: Bikarpul! Bikarpul! And then, when it's too late, it turns out that it was "Be careful!"

Work.
As soon as we checked in, I didn't even have time to unpack my things, when such a stream of information burst into my head that neither a fairy tale nor an axe could cut it out. First of all, absolutely all the papers on the ship - manuals, journals, and so on - are all in English. Even the notebook in which the reports on cargo operations are recorded - and that's in English. Papers... ooooh... There are thousands of them, lying in hundreds of folders, plus a huge number of documents on the computers. This simply tore my brain to shreds, because I need to get acquainted with this volume of information and learn to work in the shortest possible time. Constant running around, constant fuss, not easy at all. And also I need to figure out as quickly as possible all the equipment on the bridge, and there's a lot of it there. In general, for now, there is no free time at all. Absolutely. Only at night from 00:00 to 06:00 you can sleep. But it will not last long, literally 1-2 weeks, then an ocean passage to Europe, you can calmly stand watch, and in your free time read books of the Seatrade company, in case an inspection comes in Europe and asks questions.

Well, a little about the pleasant.
A nice single cabin. Inside there are several cabinets and shelves, a comfortable bed, a bunk to sleep in, a table, a chair, a washbasin and an on-board telephone. They also gave me 2 white officer's overalls with the company's symbols, a helmet and a personal radio. At my disposal is an officer's shower with a washing machine and an officer's mess. During mooring operations, my place is on the bridge. Although the sailors on the deck do not strain too much - there are hydraulic winches installed there, there is no need to pull the mooring lines manually.

That's all for now, no photos yet, because I just don't have time to do that. I'm even writing this text because I just had 2 free hours, they let me rest, because I have a 6-hour watch ahead of me, and right after that we unmoor and go to Guayaquil, and during unmooring and while the pilot is on the ship, my place is on the bridge. So, I'm going to have to really shake things up.

August 8, 2013 Puerto Bolivar, Ecuador.

Work.

I've been on the ship for almost 3 weeks now, everything is slowly starting to fall into place and become clear. From Puerto Bolivar we went to Guayaquil (Ecuador), and from there to Paita (Peru). In these ports we loaded bananas and containers. Then we set course for Europe. In order not to make a huge hook around South America, we went to the Panama Canal.

Panama Canal.
Near the entrance to the canal there is an anchorage, where a bunch of ships are standing and waiting for their turn to pass. But, we were given the go-ahead for passage practically without waiting and after standing at anchor for only three hours, the pilot arrived, commanded "dead slow ahead" (the smallest forward), I moved the handle of the engine telegraph, similar to the lever of an automatic transmission in a car, to the indicated position, to which the telegraph responded with a loud signal. The tachometer needle crawled up, the ship shook slightly and we slowly but surely began to pick up speed and move towards the canal. The entrance to the canal from the ocean side is marked by buoys - dozens of buoys, built in two lines show the only true path, it looks grandiose. And on the right, behind the palm trees and expensive villas with luxury yachts standing next to them, a huge city of skyscrapers stretches - Panama. And ten minutes later another no less grandiose spectacle opened up - the construction of new locks that will let through ships of larger sizes than the current locks. But then ahead from around the bend a huge wall appeared, which was moving in our direction. The Green Cove car carrier was heading towards us and since the canal is not a wide place, the car carrier passed us only 50 meters away, it was unusual to stand on the bridge and watch such a close divergence. And here are the tugs. This means that we are approaching the locks. As soon as we approached the lock, we were immediately tied to frisky locomotives - Mules. Then everything depended only on them. 4 Mules held us from different sides and they were in charge of the process, they quickly accelerated us and stopped us in the right place and patiently waited until the lock filled with water. Since our vessel is not very wide, there were no problems entering the lock, and the length was such that another small vessel could fit behind us. True, we turned out to be faster and while we were going from the Pacific to the Atlantic locks along the canal and Gatun Lake, this ship hopelessly fell behind, but we had to wait for it :(

Atlantic Ocean.
Passing by the Bermuda Islands, we were influenced by the local weather - sometimes the sun is shining and there is unbearable heat, sometimes a huge cloud is coming and under it a wall of rain through which nothing can be seen, sometimes the whole sky is strewn with clouds of different shapes, shades and sizes and a rainbow shines. Interesting, in general. But then all this passed and there was clear hot weather almost without wind. The water is smooth and almost without waves, as if in a lake. I imagined the Atlantic Ocean differently. But after a few days the atmospheric pressure dropped, the wind picked up and we began to be thrown from side to side. In general, it's fun, but not when you need to do something. For example, you need to mark a point on the map, you take a ruler and then eeeeh! Everything went down the table and the pencil ran away. Or you can accidentally just put the same point in the wrong place. But it's okay, we got used to it. True, it was scary to go to the shower - you could easily kill yourself there with such a pitching. And so, we arrived in Dover (Great Britain). When entering the port, an excellent view opens up: white steep cliffs of enormous height, and green hills above. On one of the hills there is a fortress, which is currently a museum. Oh, it's a pity that we had a short stop, less than a day. We never managed to go ashore. But now we are on the line, so we will come back here again, and more than once. Ferries. They are big and there are a lot of them. Ferry service to the mainland is very busy, approximately every 10-15 minutes another huge ferry arrives or departs, somehow we found an interval to slip into the port and stand at the pier. A day has passed, cargo operations at this port are completed and it is time to cast off and go to the next port - Hamburg, Germany. Less than a day's journey and we are already approaching the next port. Hamburg is located on the Elbe River, a few hours' walk from the sea. While we were walking to the city, there was a pleasant European landscape on both sides - neat houses with soft lighting, parks, jogging paths, everything looks very harmonious and cozy. On the shore there is a small beach with kayaks, and even on a cool evening there were people in jackets relaxing on the beach, about 30-50 people. All we could do was look and sigh. And a little later a factory appeared, at first glance quite inconspicuous, although not small. And when we got a little closer, I saw the Airbus logo and inscription on the wall. As the pilot said, this is one of the main Airbus factories in the world. And yes, the factory building is glazed and from the river side you can clearly see the planes inside. More precisely, the planes are in the process of being assembled. Some have a yellow-green body, others have already been painted. In Hamburg we stayed the same as in Dover - only a day, also didn't manage to walk, sadly. And so we unloaded some of the bananas, unloaded the containers, loaded new ones and set off. We are going to Rotterdam, the Netherlands (Holland). Also the crossing is less than a day.

Rotterdam.
In this city, what I had been waiting for so long happened - finally managed to go ashore. The city is relatively clean, although periodically there is garbage, but not much. Lots of parks, and lots of greenery in general. Lots of bicycles, they are everywhere, parked almost at every house, even near some houses there are special small garages for bicycles, and along all the roads there are bicycle paths with a dividing strip and even with their own traffic lights. Of the water transport, there is a water taxi and a water bus. Animals. I have not seen a single cat, but hares run along the city streets. :) There are no bars on the ground floors of houses in Rotterdam, it looks unusual and again leads to sad thoughts. We decided to change some money and in order to find an exchange office we asked the locals for help. There were two people about 60 years old sitting there, we asked them. While one was explaining the way, the other, with a swarthy face eaten away by wrinkles, took some gadgets out of his pocket and began to lay them out: a special box was half filled with marijuana, he poured it on the already prepared paper and deftly rolled a joint slightly smaller than a regular cigarette, smiled with a mouth in which the number of teeth could be counted on the fingers, and lit up. And yes, we saw shops there several times that cannot be found practically anywhere else in the world. Time to return to the ship. We jumped on the water bus and rushed towards our berth - Waalhaven. And on the ship, loading is in full swing. In some holds there are already cars and excavators, in others they are loading boxes of drinks and potatoes. A couple more excavators and trucks were placed on the lids of the holds, as well as some metal structures. And containers were loaded on the upper deck, 60 of them. We will take almost all of this stuff to Paramaribo, Suriname. We stayed in Rotterdam for almost 3 days and then, loading is complete and a man in a life jacket and with a suitcase is walking towards us along the pier. This is the pilot. I escorted him to the bridge, turned on the navigation lights, set the automatic identification system (AIS) to "Underway using engine" status and entered the next destination port, raised the "Hotel" flag, indicating the presence of a pilot on board, coordinated the AIS and radars with the gyrocompass and... we went. Ahead of us lies a 10-day passage across the Atlantic Ocean from Rotterdam to Paramaribo.

August 31, 2013. English Channel.

One evening.
Approaching the sea by car or walking, you always notice a familiar aroma and a common thought appears in your head, which is sometimes said out loud: It smells like the sea. And what does the sea smell like, far, far away, where you can't see the shore, where the depth is several kilometers beneath you? Or the ocean, where you can't even see other ships around? It doesn't smell at all, the air there is just very clean, it's very easy to breathe, but there are no smells. Or there are smells, but they appeared on the ship - either they're painting something and there's a sharp smell of acetone paint, or the cook in the galley is preparing some kind of treat and tantalizing aromas creep along the corridors. But there's no smell of the sea. How so? No, I haven't sniffed and haven't gotten used to the smell of the sea, it's not really there. And it appears when we approach the shore. In fact, it's not the sea that smells, it's the fragrant seaweed washed up on the shore and something else with it. And the sounds? In the city you can hear the bustle, cars, people and other noises, in the forest - the singing of birds and the rustling of leaves, but at sea? Especially when it's calm and the water is calm? And at sea you can hear the main engine. Not loudly, when you are in the cabin you can only hear a low hum, but you hardly notice it. But if you go down to the engine room, you can hear it perfectly well - the hum, the whistle of the turbine, and other noises, which together in their volume resemble the launch of a space rocket, to the nozzles of which you are tied with your ear so that you can hear better. It is almost impossible to talk in the engine room, it is difficult to make out the words when the interlocutor is screaming right into your ear with all his might. That is why everyone there wears noise-protecting headphones and does not talk :) Oh well, let's go back to the upper deck. And there are refrigerated containers, they contain refrigeration units for cooling the contents and these units constantly buzz with their fans. They buzz loudly, you can talk, but you may not hear the radio. But you can go to the forecastle (the bow of the ship) and there you can practically hear none of this - only the noise of the wind and the rustle of the water, which the bow of the ship cuts through. And they also say, like, if you want to know where the coast is - look for clouds. This is nonsense. The Atlantic Ocean, hundreds, even thousands of miles to the coast and ... the whole sky is in clouds, but not a solid gray mass, but such a variety, such a riot of colors that you are amazed. In the evening I came to the watch, it was a quarter to eight, and in the sky it was like ... as if the Creator's muse was playing and he could hardly stop. It is difficult to imagine this beauty and impossible to convey in words. The whole sky was burning, in all colors, the sun was slowly approaching the horizon, taking with it another day and giving way to a warm night. (Yes, it is hot here we reap and good at night. In the middle of the Atlantic the water is bright blue and its temperature is +28 degrees, the depth is about 3-5 kilometers). On the left, not far from us, appeared ь some movement - it's a school of dolphins, cheerfully jumping out of the water, hurrying somewhere on their important dolphin business. I see a dot on the radar ahead, about 5 miles away. Well, I think, probably interference. Nothing is visible visually. I look at the second radar - there is also a glow. Soooo, now it's interesting, I take the binoculars and ... I see nothing. On both radars the dot is approaching, and the signal is already clear, it is clearly not garbage that lit up. Even a buoy would not glow so brightly on the radar. Some time passes, the radars show an object 3 miles from us, moving at a speed of 3 knots. I look through the binoculars again - and nothing. The dolphins were also nearby, but the radar did not see them, since again the object is too small. And here it is, glowing and not going anywhere. The shortest distance was about two miles, I still did not see anything. Sometimes the radar hits the clouds, but it looks completely different. So, what it was, I don’t know. The watch passed quietly, no one and nothing around, the depth is great, nothing to be afraid of. It’s already ten to twelve, the door creaked on the bridge and the third mate came in with a gloomy face to take over the watch. He must have not slept enough. And today, on his watch, the clocks are set back an hour, which means he has an hour more to stand. And I have an hour more to sleep :).
-Everything is quiet and calm?
-Yes, as usual.
-That’s good (Yegor smiled, apparently his brain began to wake up)
It’s five to, I need to make an entry in the ship’s log, I’m standing, writing. And then, in the silence of the night, laughter comes from the VHF radio. And we haven’t heard anything on the air for several days - there are no ships, and if we do come across them, there’s nothing to talk about with them, we always part in silence. We exchanged glances and shrugged our shoulders. I continued writing in the journal, and Yegor went to look at the radar, to see who was causing trouble. At that moment, the radio again said: hahaaa-ha-ha-haa... Yeah, it happens. We don't pay attention anymore. And then there was laughter again, and it so happened that at that moment, a ruler hanging from the backlight of the table where I was filling out the journal fell off and unexpectedly fell right in front of my nose on the journal. "Bitch!!!" - involuntarily escaped from me. How I didn't shit my pants, I don't know. Yegor also flinched from surprise, a silent pause. I silently hung the ruler back up, and after a few seconds we started laughing. Okay, I'll stay a little longer, we were planning to set up the weather facsimile receiver for a long time, which was quietly standing in the radio room and it was unclear whether it was working or not. We turned it on. The lights on the receiver lit up. Oh, that's not bad. We found the frequencies of the weather stations, tuned in to the closest one and started waiting. Then we decided to leave it for the night and check in the morning, maybe something would be received. As a result, after 12 hours we remembered about the receiver and went to check. All night it received and printed out interference and what came out of it were not weather maps, but five meters of colorful wallpaper. We decided to pause the experiments with the weather receiver for now and postpone them until later, when the shores were closer. Anyway, now the weather is received by a special program via satellite Internet.

September 4, 2013. Atlantic Ocean.

Riddles.
Life on a ship is relatively monotonous, but there is always something to do and therefore time flies quickly, much faster than on land. It would seem that only yesterday I was packing my suitcase and going to the airport, and today I have been on board a ship for a month. But despite all the monotony, very interesting questions often pop up, to which it is not easy to find an answer. One radar stopped working, no matter how hard we tried to figure out the reason - all in vain. The screen works, the antenna rotates, everything is set up correctly, and there are no light spots on the screen. There is on the other radar, but this one is empty. And when a technician arrived in Panama, he said that there was water in the antenna. Having removed the water from there, he said that he had no idea how it got there, but now he drilled holes in the antenna and we are no longer afraid of flooding the antenna. Then he asked us: - where are you from?
- from Russia, we answered, to which the technician continued:
- I know the Russian word for this (pointing at the radar) - is dermo!
- what? - we were confused...
- SHIT! - the Panamanian technician said almost without an accent and left.
Soon, the same radar again twisted its head and it began to show light spots with an error of... 180 degrees. That is, if a ship was heading towards us, the radar would draw it as if it was catching up with us. It is clear that this wonderful device cannot be used again. We sent a request to technical support, it turned out that the settings in the radar brains were lost and they wrote us instructions on how to fix it, plus a password to protect the settings from any naughty hands. We have already fixed this ourselves. Another mystery. Each ship has marine navigation charts. They plot the route from port to port, then points are taken from there, entered into the so-called voyage plan, then these same points are entered into the GPS and it draws an electronic route. This same route from the GPS is displayed on the radar, where it is visually clearly shown how to go and where to turn. Yesterday afternoon, a surprise was discovered - the data on the GPS and the radar began to diverge, the GPS is still called a deviation from the route to the left, the radar - to the right, the total difference was about 0.15 miles. Yes, for the ocean this is not much, but the paradox takes place, because both devices should show the same data. We compared the coordinates with other GPS, everything matches everywhere. We decided to remove the coordinates from the GPS and put a point on the map to see where we are, and then a miss! And not by 0.15, but by as much as 8 miles past the laid route! We began to recheck the points everywhere - everything matches everywhere, we put a point on the map again and again get a miss of 8 miles. The 3rd assistant had a very painful watch, he never solved this riddle. Then we decided to try one option - to insert more intermediate points into the route and after we put just one intermediate point, the alarm went off on the GPS - XTE Alarm! Like, are you even aware that you have deviated from the route by several miles? What a bastard, huh? Ok, we turned around, returned to the route and lo and behold! All the errors disappeared - the radar and GPS started showing the same data, and on the map we were right on the route line. That's how the devices can joke. Another riddle, the captain shared it, giggling hysterically. He was figuring out a program for accounting of salaries, reading the instructions. On the very first page there is this line: "Make sure that May 1 is actually May 1." Wow. Let's move on. "...To continue, press this button" (a picture is provided, a screenshot of the screen, where the desired button is circled). And then in brackets there is a brilliant continuation: "note that the button is invisible." And indeed, this button is not in the program. The captain's eye twitched. Then: "press such-and-such button and then, POSSIBLY, such-and-such window will appear..." The window did not appear. The captain lit a cigarette. He looked with glassy eyes through the lenses of his glasses at the glass of the monitor. The brain was quietly failing. It was scary to look at the instructions. Then it figured out the program itself, for almost a week. Why did the ventilation open yesterday and not today? Why did INMARSAT (a facsimile receiver of various information) stop printing messages on paper, and the second Inmarsat stopped receiving them altogether? Why does the weather facsimile receiver print colorful wallpaper instead of weather maps? Why was one Filipino underpaid $8 and threw a fit, while another was charged $1,000 more than he should have? Where did the gyrocompass repeater cover go, tightly seated and tied down, and why did the second one, on another repeater, not tied down, remain in place? Why did they send me the wrong file from the office yesterday, not in my name? And where is mine? Why? Why?...

September 7, 2013. Atlantic Ocean.

Paramaribo.
+35 in the shade, high humidity, water +30, gas chamber. We are approaching Paramaribo, the capital of Suriname. Now we are on the line Paramaribo - Puerto Bolivar - Guayaquil - Paita - Dover - Hamburg - Rotterdam - Paramaribo ... Of these ports, only two - Dover and Paita - are sea ports, all the rest are in rivers, this is not good, because the conditions are difficult, you always have to be extremely careful, and the machine works at the limit, since the rivers are quite shallow and the machine gets heavily polluted with silt from the bottom. Paramaribo is no exception, but this port is the most difficult and here's why: Firstly, the river is quite wide, and the fairway with safe depths is very narrow, literally 300 meters. Step left-step right - grounding. Naturally, the vessel is commanded by a local pilot, and he navigates by buoys, buoys are lined up in one row and show only one side of the fairway. Plus, when we were approaching the mouth, a thunderstorm front was approaching us and a strong wind and waves arose, and since the ship was moving slowly, it began to drift, that is, going along the fairway, the ship was turned with its bow to the wind and thus, it was going diagonally. Oh wow. It looked scary: the buoy that needed to be left on the left side, we saw ahead slightly to the right, we went without changing course and the buoy gradually went to the left side, since the wind was carrying the ship to the right. We passed at a distance of about 30 meters from the buoys. And there were also oncoming ships, we had to pass them at very short distances. But that's not all. While we were going along the river to the pier, it was already dark and pitch-black night, the pilot was guided by the flashing lights on the buoys. But, now the city (a large village) is visible and a bridge looms ahead, before reaching which we had to moor to our pier. And then the most interesting thing began, personally I had a hard time wrapping my head around it: mooring in a shallow river, in a turn (during mooring, the vessel turns 180 degrees to immediately turn its bow to the exit), at night, without tugs! But, everything went perfectly, we approached the pier very smoothly, one might say with precision. The pilot is great, a real professional. Yes, not far from the pier there is a sunken ship from the war, which does not even look like a ship, so it also complicates the mooring a little. In general, while we were approaching the pier, everyone who was on the bridge periodically shook the sweat from their foreheads. Then the mechanics said that the car picked up a lot of dirt from the bottom, miraculously did not stall, and that would have been the end. There is nothing special to write about the city itself, since I did not go to the city, I had enough strength after the watch to get to the cabin and immediately switch off. A little dirty, but not critical. The people are friendly, almost all black as night, however, you had to constantly run and watch them - otherwise they would break the whole steamer, and even then, on the forecastle they twisted our crane rails into a ram's horn, and when loading containers on the left side, they apparently mixed something up in the crane and a container rushed past me, knocking down everything in its path - they tore off a piece of the deck lighting searchlight, broke the rails, drove along the crane house where I was at that moment (the building on which the ship's cargo crane is located), then the container flew back and hit another, unsecured container standing on the ship, almost dropping it back onto the pier. I started screaming with my eyes wide open and waving my arms so that they would stop this hellish meat grinder, in response they all shouted in unison Sorry, sorry... in general, mysterious guys, you never know what and where they will do. We stood in Paramaribo for two days, unloaded all the cargo, loaded empty containers and headed towards the Panama Canal. We should be there on September 15 at 10 am. There were no problems at the exit - we left in the morning, when it was already light and the weather was good, we were not carried anywhere and the silt from the bottom almost did not rise.

September 11, 2013. Atlantic Ocean.